So welcome to
Target Points and Patrol Routes! What we're going to do in this video is use these
little markers here, called Target Points, to work as waypoints for the
soldiers to be moving around, and then, we're going to provide a facility for each of the
guards to have certain Target Points that he visits like this one. This guy has
three or four, and this other guy has different Target Points. But they're also
sharing one of them, and they're sharing the one that's upstairs here. So go ahead and take a look at how we get this done!
So if we're going to setup the sort of patrolling behavior I showed you a
few videos ago, then obviously this method of programming it all
individually inside the blueprint is going to get very cumbersome indeed.
What we want to be able to do is put something down, physically in the world, something called a
Target Point, and then, it's very easy for
us or the designer to move those target points around. And then later, we can hang
further information off those Target Points, like how long should the AI loiter at
this point or anything else that we want. So we need to setup an
architecture of Target Points, and then, have a way for a given
instance of an AI character like this specifying the Target Point's,
that he or she should be visiting. So let's
start off by just looking at the blueprint for this AI character.
So let's just go find that somewhere in, I think it's in Third
PersonCharacterCPP. There you go, ThirdPersonCharacter! Let's go edit the blueprint!
Now that didn't open up in the tab how I wanted it to, Unreal
seems to forget that setting sometimes. So I'm going to go to my Editor Preferences
and right here, Asset Editor Open Location, then Main Window.
Just keep beating it into shape! Set that as Default,
make my settings writable. So I said Set as Default, make
settings writable. It's warned me that it may effect other developers. Well I'm the only developer here, at the moment.
That's fine for now. And I'm just going to go ahead and check, in source control, that that's
setting has been properly saved. It should have actually made a change to
this .ini file. And it looks like it has! Good!
And it's right down here. Alright! Anyway, so what we want to
do is, inside this ThirdPersonCharacter, I'm going to open up the full blueprint. It's just I find it
easier to navigate and give myself some sight here. What we're going to do is start off
with a Blueprint Variable that is going to allow to store an
array of target points, and then, we'll also talk about
what target points are and get those setup. So if you go to the My
Blueprint tab, of the ThirdPersonCharacter blueprint,
we can add a new variable here and I'm going to call it Patrol
Points. Now, if I can put a space in blueprint, I do just
because it reads more clearly. And we're going to go ahead and look
at what it is. Now, do we have something of Target Point type? We
do! Great! Alright, so we want a reference to a
Target Point! As I said, we'll see what target points are in a moment, but I just want to get the variables setup
first. Now, whenever we've made a blueprint variable before, it's all very well, it sits here.
And if I compile this blueprint and look at an instance
like this dude here and now search for "patrol",
then provided you've made it visible, you see
this little eye, you have to click visible here. Recompile so you have a Patrol Point
variable, compiled with an eye. If we now look here
we see, under the Default category, that category, by the way, is set here. You see
category Default. Default's not descriptive, so we could call it
Patrol Root or Route if you like, if you're American. So I make the category
Patrol Route, and then over here on the guy
we have a Patrol Route section. Here it is, buried somewhere!
Patrol Route, and it's saying, tell me what the Patrol Points are, but it's only asking me
to select a single Patrol Point. We want multiple Patrol Points, so
how do you organize that? Well, for the first time, we're going to make our blueprint variable, not just a
single but an array. So you literally just click this button here, that turns it
into an array. Alright, if we recompile now
you can see that you would be able to add multiple elements here to the
archetype or probably, more usefully, to the specific instance here.
We can now come in, we can go down, find the patrol setup
area, or it might be easier, because he's got so many properties, just to type that, and
you can start adding multiple Patrol Points. Cool! Alright,
so I'm just going to remove all of those patrol points and start talking about what these
Target Points actually are in the world. So if you go now to
Modes and you look for Target, you'll find a Target Point,
and you can drop that into the world. And now, let's just take a little look
at it! What is it? Well firstly, you can see it! There it is, it's rendered like a billboard, it's
always facing the camera, so it doesn't matter where we go, it doesn't really have three dimensionality to it.
And then, you get a load of options on this Target Point! If we click
on it here, you can see that it's got a Sprite icon here, and you can get various different
screen sizes that you can increase and decrease, but whether or not that
will take effect depends on all sorts of factors. So let's not worry too much about screen size,
for the moment. The default is there and it's good enough, we can
see it, which is what we're after. Alright, so there's other factors
here, to do with the UV Mapping, etc. ect. and Editor Scaling, and
all of these will effect how large it is but look it works! The point is, it's just a
thing in the world that allows us to specify points, and what we're going to do is,
we're going to grab these points and pop them around where we want them.
So we may have a Target Point there, we may have another Target Point say here,
and I'll just put a third Target Point down here, just for the sake of argument.
And all these are, for us at the moment, until we start
embellishing them with other properties, is a way of defining the Patrol Route.
Now, what we can do is we can go to this character, and we
can assign that character to the Target Points we
want him to move around. Now how do you do that? Well
you look for his Patrol Points array and you just start adding them. Now you can pick from
them, you can give them meaningful names, if you like, or you can just click on them and
notice what their name is. That's Point3, that's Point2, that's Point1. So I'm
going to imagine that this soldier wants to patrol between these three
points. Now of course, a given point can be shared amongst multiple soldiers,
one of the benefits of doing it this way. So let's go to the soldier and just
assign these three Target Points. Then, what I'm
going to do is, I'm going to challenge you, when this drop-down decides to work, to add in another
soldier and make sure that they've got separate Target Points. And then, in the next
lecture, we'll start thinking about how we're actually going to read from these Target Points and iterate
through them in Blueprint. OK, so this dude
has three Target Points associated with him, and there is no currently
no other AI Actor in the scene. Perfect! OK
let me give you a challenge! So what I want you to do to reinforce what we've just gone through is
to add another patrolling soldier. Add another AI character to your scene anywhere.
will do. Add a new Target Point up the stairs, and
then, make the two soldiers share that one point. So
add the point that's at the top of the stairs to the first soldier, the one I just worked on, and then,
for the second soldier that you're going to add, make sure that the point that's up the stairs is
one of them. So they're going to have different points, in general, but one of them they're going to share.
It creates water cooler moments, where they both end up in the same place at the same time and
they can chat. And then, add a couple of new points for the new guy. So
hopefully you understand that the current guy has three points, we want to add one more for him,
and then, a new guy with a few points, at least two or three,
one of which is shared with the first guy. Hopefully that makes sense. So go ahead, pause the video, and see
if you can get another patrolling soldier and set ourselves up for a water cooler moment
right now. OK welcome
back! So what do I mean by water cooler moment? I'm just saying that this is an opportunity,
as I say, for these two soldiers to interact. So there is
my Target Point, at the top of the stairs. I could give this one a more meaningful name,
I could say UpStairs. It's worth giving them
sensible names, quite early on. I'm going to add UpStairs to this
Actor's list. So there you go, UpStairs! You see how easy this is to setup
now? It's pretty cool, right? And then, I'm going to go ahead to the Content
Browser, drop in another ThirdPersonCharacter. Remember that the End
key on your keyboard will snap him to the ground. He has actually snapped to the ground automatically,
but should he be up in the air like this, I can hit the End key and push him to the ground.
Then, I need to give him at least the UpStairs Patrol Point,
and then, I want to get in a few more of these Patrol
Points, so I'll put one perhaps here, making sure it's not under the ground.
I'm going to hold down the Alt key, that's one way of duplicating something in Unreal,
and then, drag with Alt held down and that gives me another couple
of Target Points. They are Target Point 4 and 5, and I'll just
leave them named like that, for the moment. All the time there's only a handful that is still going to be
manageable. So this guy now has Target Point 4
and Target Point 5. OK, so as we flip between the two
characters, you can see that this guy has these points, this guy has these points,
and now, in the next video, we can start focusing on the logic of how we make these
characters interact and move between these points. And you can see,
hopefully, this is a nice general simple way of specifying Patrol Routes.
So I'll see you in the next video!